QUESTION 1:-Who developed python programming language
ANSWER : Guido van Rossum

QUESTION 2:-Which type of programming does python support
ANSWER : Python is a multi-paradigm programming language. 
         Object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported, 
         and many of their features support functional programming and aspect-oriented
         programming (including metaprogramming and metaobjects)
         
QUESTION 3:-Is python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers.
ANSWER: Yes, Python is a case-sensitive language, i.e., it treats uppercase and lowercase characters differently.
        This applies to identifiers too.
        You must avoid using the same name with different cases while naming identifiers. 
        It is always good to use names that are more easily understood. 
        If you want to store counts of 2 values, you would rather name your variables count1 and count2 
        instead of naming them C and c. 
        Although the latter would give you separate variables, it can cause a lack of understanding in 
        the longer run.
        
QUESTION 5:-is python code compiled or interpreted
ANSWER : python compiled or interpreted both type of language
		 The compilation part is hidden from the programmer thus
         The compilation part is done first when we execute our code and this will generate byte code
         and internally this byte code gets converted by the python virtual
         machine(p.v.m) according to the underlying platform(machine+operating system).
         
QUESTION 6:-name a few blocks of code used to define in python language 
ANSWER: Indentation is used to define a block of code in python. Braces {} are used to define 
        a block of code in most programming languages, like C, C++, and Java. 
        But this indentation makes python unique among all programming languages.
        This indentation highlights the block of code. In Python, 
        indentation is done with whitespace. All statements with the same right-hand distance
        belong to the same code block. If a block needs to be more nested, it is indented to the right.
        
        EXAMPLE:

        name = 'SAURABH'

        if name == 'SAURABH':
            print('Correct Name!!')
        else:
            print('InCorrect Name:(')
        print('HI')         

QUESTION 7:-states a character used to give single-line comment in python
ANSWRE: #

QUESTION 8:-mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on.
ANSWER:  sys.version

QUESTION 9:-python supports the creationof anonymous function at runtime using a construct called
ANSWER : lambda

QUESTION 10:-what does pip stand for python
ANSWER : fulll form of pip is preferred installation program its is package management system to install and manage software packages written in Python and found in Python Package Index (PyPI). Basically it is used to install additional libraries and packages that are not part of the standard Python library.

QUESTION 11:-mention a few build in function in python
ANSWER :1. print( ) function.
        2. type( ) function.
        3. input( ) function.
        4. abs( ) function.
        5. pow( ) function  
        
QUESTION 12:-what is the maximum possible lenght of an identifier in python
ANSWER :79 characters

QUESTION 13:-what are the benifit of using python
ANSWER : 1.Easy to Read, Learn and Write
         2.Dynamically Typed
         3.Vast Libraries Support
        it is also used in data science webdevlopment and in many more technologies
        
QUESTION 14:how is memory manage in python
ANSWER :Memory management in Python involves a private heap containing all Python objects and data structures.
        The management of this private heap is ensured internally by the Python memory manager.
        The Python memory manager has different components which deal with various dynamic storage management
        aspects, like sharing, segmentation, preallocation or caching.
        
QUESTION 15:how to install python on windows and set path variable
ANSWER : how to install:
       1. Open a browser to the Python website and download the Windows installer.
       2. Double click on the downloaded file and install Python for all users, and ensure 
         that Python is added to your path. Click on Install now to begin.
         Adding Python to the path will enable us to use the Python interpreter from any part of the filesystem.
       3. After the installation is complete, click Disable path length limit and then Close.
           Disabling the path length limit means we can use more than 260 characters in a file path.
       4. Click Close to end the installation.
    
    
       set path:
       1.Right-clicking This PC and going to Properties.
       2.Clicking on the Advanced system settings in the menu on the left.
       3.Clicking on the Environment Variables button o​n the bottom right.
       4.In the System variables section, selecting the Path variable and clicking on Edit. 
       The next screen will show all the directories that are currently a part of the PATH variable.
       5.Clicking on New and entering Python’s install directory
       
QUESTION 16:is indentation required in python
ANSWER : yes otherwise its give an error       